Hey, Charlie. Welcome to Talk Python To Me.
Hi, Michael.
Great to have you here. We have corresponded back and forth about security things.
And now, are you here to scare us? Is that what's going to happen?
It's going to seem that way. There are threats everywhere, especially when you start looking.
And that's the problem. You look, you'll find them.
If you're not looking, you might get affected without even knowing it.
yeah but that's true but we're also going to come with some tools and techniques and tips on
how to avoid security problems with your python code yes absolutely yeah yeah i think
it's an especially i don't know concerning that certainly catches my attention that if you
mess with somebody's software like the software builders the developers it gets shipped to however
users are on the other side of that equation, right? It's not like I just took over some
teenagers gaming PC and now what can I do? It's like, I took over, you know, name your big,
big web app and now we're going to start shipping some stuff around. All right. That's where,
where the sort of multiplicative aspect of this gets more concerning than just standard
personal computer safety, right? Oh, absolutely.
You know, a single developer can, can have very broad impact, you know,
maybe they publish one package,
but that one package could be included in hundreds,
thousands of other packages as a dependency.
And then everyone using those, those packages could,
could be affected whether the code is,
is good and works as intended or poorly written and has bugs and
vulnerabilities yeah this is this is not to say there's any chance of there being a problem with
pydantic but just to make your point if you go to like pydantic or request or something like that
a lot of these have used by projects right and this pydantic is used by 315 000 people uh
not people software projects that then themselves have users right and so it's that's the kind of
stuff that i'm thinking about when i said that multiplicative effect right it's it's a big
multiplier, not just a couple. Oh yeah. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. Now, before we dive into our
main topic, of course, you know, tell people a bit about yourself.
Hi, well, my name is Charles Coggins. I usually go by Charlie and I am, I'm a Python developer,
I'm a software developer, but not through the traditional sense. I don't have a computer
science degree. I didn't come to this, you know, straight out of school. I got my first
taste of programming long enough ago, back in the 80s, in 1987, my dad got a computer for us.
And, you know, I was messing around on there with some games, always with games, right?
You know, at the time it was basic, you know, it was this bowling game that my brother and I would
play. And I saw that I could look at the code, I could look at the source. And I went in there and
modified it a bit to make it so that I would always win whenever I played him.
How long did it take him to catch on?
Oh, he figured out pretty, pretty quickly.
And he was in there to change in, you know, ball speed and, you know,
how often he could get a gutter or get a gutter.
But yeah, I, you know, took, took a class or two in high school and college,
but I was an electrical engineering major and then went to work for the
government doing something that wasn't even really that. So I spent 10 years working for the
government before they stood up the US Cyber Command and decided or figured out that they
needed to hire 6,000 new developers to fill the positions. And there weren't that many available
in the industry, let alone those who could pass the clearances and work in that environment.
So they looked to people already working in the government.
And I raised my hand.
I said, yes, yes, I want to cross train.
I'll be a developer.
And so they trained me.
Excellent.
What did they teach you for language in that program?
We started with C, C++, and then there was some Python.
So I went through a couple of boot camps and a lot of self-learning, self-teaching.
Python is the one that really clicked for me.
It just made sense in my head.
Yeah, of course.
If you're learning to do cybersecurity stuff, a lot of times I'd be happy to tell people like,
ah, you don't really need to learn C or Rust or Java.
If you just know Python, you're probably 90% of the time golden.
but if you're trying to do cyber security a lot of times it's about like
the machine level stuff right understanding things like c and pointers and buffer overflows and yeah
all of that kind of stuff is where you actually kind of need to be right and they and they taught
us all that as well in fact we learned assembly language as well and that one really didn't fit in
my brain so you're not like i didn't want to become an assembly language language programmer
i mean yeah that's a that's a whole different breed
yeah it sure is and you know it used to be i remember when i first got into programming i was
doing some cc plus plus and inline assembly was something people would do a lot to optimize a lot
like uh people might do cython or number or something like that to make python fast like
we'll find this little part and we'll rewrite it in this way and be like we're just going to do
inline assembly, I'm like, that just doesn't seem like worthwhile.
I don't need that much performance.
We're going to not do that.
Yeah, yeah.
Fun.
So now you're working at Phylum.
Is it Python-focused or just software security?
It's not Python-focused.
In fact, the company primarily develops with Rust, as you were mentioning.
Yeah, we've got some excellent Rust developers at our company.
And I think that's what subtracted a lot of them is that that is the primary language we use.
But we also have some elements in Python.
And when I came on board, I got assigned to work on our integrations.
You know, so like GitHub integrations, GitLab, pre-commit hooks, things like that.
And so I was able to kind of architect it the way I thought best.
And because I love Python, I made it all in Python and, you know, exposed it to Docker containers.
Are you doing direct integration with Rust, like Py03?
Or is it more issuing commands out?
The Rust elements that our company works on, like our API, the command line interface, a lot of the back end, it's just written straight Rust.
And then the Python is just plain Python.
There's no interface between the two, really.
Yeah.
Okay.
Consuming APIs and Docker containers and stuff like that.
Right, right, right.
Although I am interested in the Py03 and I think there's room to bridge the two languages at our company.
Well, I mean, for sure, people are adopting Rust for the performance foundations of Python.
You know, it's pretty interesting.
Yeah, yeah.
I've been at the company almost two years now.
I keep saying it's what I'm going to learn next is Rust.
And I felt like I would just kind of absorb it by going through code reviews.
And I'm like, I don't know if you want my team.
It hasn't happened yet.
You know, I can kind of understand what's going on by reading it.
But I just, yeah, I need to jump in.
F in depth.
Okay, got it.
Those are the same.
Yeah.
No, it's interesting.
Okay.
Well, we're not here to talk about Rust.
Although I do think it's becoming one of those things that is sort of kind of,
if you need to be a little one level deeper in the Python space that used to be C.
And now it's, I think it's pretty solidly moving to be rust, right?
It's, there's a lot of popular things.
Identic, for example, I pulled up earlier where that's the foundation,
but that also seems to be where the momentum is.
Yeah. The oxidation of Python libraries is a real thing. I mean, you know,
look at rough.
Yeah. Rough. I just heard about how granules.
I think it was, which is a new similar,
similar to Gunicorn and uWSGI is a rust based async server.
You know, there's, it goes on and on. Awesome. All right.
Well let's talk about software security though. You know,
like we touched on a little bit with the multiplicative aspect of like why
software developers should care,
but maybe let's start with some,
some ways in which viruses might get on a computer from a software perspective, not,
not from like, oh, you know, I found this cool app on BitTor and normally it's paid,
but this one's free. It's like, maybe don't install that. But, you know, not that kind
of advice. Right. But, you know, specifically for software developers.
Right. Right. So for software developers, I think the primary
vector for malicious code running in your environment or really any developer environment
along the way. It doesn't just have to be your system. It could be your CI/CD servers,
your runners. It's going to be software dependencies, third-party code, right?
Code from strangers on the internet, right? That's really what it boils down to.
Charlie, they're just here to help out.
They're just giving you the code to help out.
They have no bad intentions.
Right, right.
Except for that one over there.
Don't take their code.
Yeah.
And it's hard to tell, you know, what's good, what's bad.
And I think we all rely on third-party code.
I mean, I think it's a rare company, rare project that writes everything from scratch on their own
without any dependencies.
Yeah.
So that's a vector for sure,
is allowing code from strangers on the internet to run.
I think the name of the game for attackers and threat actors
is arbitrary code execution.
That's the key phrase, arbitrary code execution.
If I can get arbitrary code execution with this vulnerability,
then I've won.
You're going to get a CVE score of nine or above.
It's right there.
Yeah, exactly.
And that's for vulnerabilities.
That's just poorly written code or code with bugs.
But forget about vulnerabilities.
I mean, if you're an attacker, you're a threat actor,
you've already got the perfect means to run arbitrary code,
to gain arbitrary code execution on a developer system.
That's with third-party dependencies.
Open source software is just the perfect target
for writing malware or slipping malware into packages.
- Now, when people hear this,
we've talked about it enough.
It actually came as quite a surprise a few years ago.
People theoretically knew that it could happen,
but that it was happening is that packages on package stores
like PyPI and npm and so on,
got published vulnerabilities that people could then install and make part of theirs.
But there's a whole software supply chain, right?
Maybe talk us through some of the different elements that make that up.
Only one of which is these libraries, right?
That's right.
So the software supply chain is, it's really, it's using third-party code securely,
as well as securing the end-to-end development process.
So that process is very broadly broken into three phases.
You've got the source phase.
That's source control management systems.
And then actually coding.
Developers coding on their systems.
Committing to repositories.
Yeah.
You mentioned the dependencies like pip install this or that.
There's also, for many of the really popular IDEs and editors, there's a whole massive array of varying levels of trusted plugins or extensions, right, as well.
That's right.
Yeah.
Like Visual Studio Code, that's what I use for my IDE.
You know, it's got an extensive extension ecosystem.
Just about anything you want to do.
I get a little pop-up when I open a new project and it says,
oh, I recognize you're using a YAML file.
Do you want to download this extension that will lend to YAML files, right?
Yeah, I got one for CVEs.
It was like rainbow CSV syntax highlighter or something.
I'm like, you know what?
That's not really made by a trusted company.
It's probably fine.
But I don't need my CSV files highlighted so much so
that I'm willing to just like run arbitrary code
from a stranger on the internet.
That's right.
Right?
And, you know, I use both PyCharm and VS Code
and they both, especially PyCharm has sort of a warning
that says this is untrusted.
It's a third party thing.
Are you sure you want it?
But that's a pretty light warning.
And also they're not the same, right?
Is it installed by a million people used every day
or is it for you the fourth person to use it?
And it hasn't, you know,
hasn't had the experience of people going,
why is it opening a network socket?
What's it doing?
You know, something like that.
Yeah, yeah.
That's another entry point
you got to be careful about.
All right.
Well, I cut you off.
We're only in like square one of maybe nine.
Yeah, square one, source code.
And then there's the build phase.
That's where you take the code, you take the commits that have gone into source control, and you build something with it, right?
This usually happens in your CI, CD systems, GitHub, and GitLabs of the world.
And it's at that point where your third-party dependencies get included and wrapped up into your artifacts, right?
which brings us to the third stage of the software supply chain,
which is the package and deploy phase.
That's where you're creating your artifacts and making them available to the world to use.
Could be anything.
Could be a wheel for a library that other parts of your company use to build software.
Yep.
Could be some app you ship.
It could actually be a website, an API, who knows, right?
Yeah.
Docker container.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
And then by the time you get to that, you know, the end of the supply chain and, you know, the products or the packaged product that people are going to see and use and work with, you know, you've baked in so many elements at that point, you know, from your third party dependencies to
any other
external resources that are getting called.
So there's lots of points along the way
that it's possible to...
One of the things that can be sneaky is
it doesn't happen that often in Python,
but if you're shipping a Windows or a Mac app,
there's a digital signature proof of,
we're going to sign this with our trusted certificate.
So it doesn't even give you any warnings.
Like, look, this is, it's signed by the company.
It is trusted.
Here you go.
Take it.
Right.
And somewhere upstream from that,
there's an issue like with packages or other things.
Well, that issue is now,
that problem is signed and verified as well.
Yeah.
You know, so you mentioned code signing.
The research team at our company, I mean, they're amazing, amazing group there.
They're always finding new and novel attacks.
And one they found just this past week involves something kind of cool where the attacker had bundled up a valid Microsoft binary.
It had been signed by Microsoft.
But they bundled it with a DLL that was malicious.
It was named something to be expected, right?
So when you run the executable on the binary, you could see that there's this Microsoft
signs application looking for permissions, looking to continue.
And you're like, oh, yeah, great.
Signed by Microsoft.
No problem.
But then it uses this technique called DLL search order hijacking.
that technique, right?
So if you have a DLL that's being called
by the application more locally than not,
that's what's going to be called.
So it's looking for something in like, yeah.
It'll look for the name of the DLL
in the same directory first,
basically is what's happening.
Right, right.
They had shipped their bad DLL with a good binary.
So you pick something in system 32
that's got like a real common name,
like VC, runtime, whatever,.dll,
or some of the standard ones,
but then you completely reprogram it
and stick it in there with that app,
or maybe not completely
because you need the app to not crash,
but you give it some extra boost
when it does something, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, in this case,
they had just copied all the files needed
for execution into a new directory,
including the known good binary,
the known bad DLL and then had everything it needed
in that directory to run and it looked like it was legitimate.
Right. Because a lot of these OS checks are on
the executable on the system libraries that they use.
Right.
Right. You'll see this executable is downloaded from
the internet to you sure you want to run it.
That doesn't say this executable,
which you trust is maybe possibly using
a library that you downloaded.
It doesn't say that.
Right.
Yeah, because we could never get work done if there's that level of checking all over the place.
This is updated somewhere.
All right.
So that's kind of the space that we're talking about, right?
We've got editors.
We've got libraries that you use, CI, CD pipelines.
Containers are super interesting as well.
And all the tools to go with those.
So let's talk through some of the posts that you've written and also just selected about some of these things.
Maybe starting to the front of that list there with block files.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, yes, I wrote a blog post.
I guess it's looking at the date on your screen.
It looks like it was over a year ago now.
And probably seemed like yesterday.
Yeah, that's right.
2022 it was.
So I'm sure the landscape has changed since then a bit.
And maybe there's some new players out there.
But yeah, I think one thing you can do as a developer,
a big one I would recommend is use lock files
for your dependencies.
And what's a lock file?
Well, it's the fully resolved set of dependencies
that are used by your application, your package.
And if nothing else,
you should know what's going into your code.
Right?
- Right.
- Not just your direct.
- Yeah, exactly.
That's a bit of a challenge, right?
And I think I'll admit when I first got into Python,
I didn't do this that well.
And, you know, to me, it felt like probably the biggest issue I might run into is instability in my app, right?
Like, for example, if I don't pin a dependency, some new thing comes out, I reinstall it on a new computer.
Maybe it gets an upgraded version and there's some library that doesn't work, right?
I mean, there's been certainly popular libraries that just said we're having a major version change and we're fixing the mistakes we made 10 years ago.
And these three functions are changing or whatever, right?
That would break it.
but it could also be there's now a malicious version of library x and that's version two but
if you pinned it on version one even though it's bad you're still not getting the bad one at least
for a while right absolutely yes um so i think i gotta look it up i always forget PEP 6 6 5 okay
Yeah, PEP665. It's a rejected PEP, unfortunately, but it was written by Brett Cannon and some others. I know you've had Brett on the show a number of times. I love the stuff he does.
Yeah, he does excellent work.
And it's kind of a shame this was rejected, but this PEP tried to create a standard lock file format for Python.
And, you know, if you look into the PEP a little bit, there's some motivation about like why you'd want to do this and, you know, four big reasons.
And the third one is one I really key on, which is that lock files allow for reproducibility.
And reproducibility is just more secure.
Because when, you know, I'm quoting here from the pep, it says, when you control exactly what files are installed, you can make sure no malicious actor is attempting to slip nefarious code into your application, i.e. some supply chain attacks.
By using a lock file, which always leads to reproducible installs, we can avoid certain risks entirely.
And I mean, that's the name of the game.
That's what our company focuses on,
which is avoiding those risks
by ensuring you know which dependencies you're using
and you're knowing that those dependencies are benign,
they're good, doing no harm.
Even if there is something that happens,
usually it's going to happen to a popular library
because you're using it,
hence probably other people are using it.
other than type of squatting, which we can talk about, but you know, if you pin your dependencies,
chances are it's, these things only stick around for a little while. It's not like,
oh, they discovered it had been there for eight months. It's like, oh my gosh,
we heard about it. A few people got it and then we got rid of it. Right. Yes. Folks at PIPA are
pretty excellent. So it's, it's to some degree a timing issue as well. Yes. Yeah. Vulnerabilities
a lot of the tooling exists to discover vulnerabilities in your dependencies,
which is good to know about those, but those exist for a long time, right?
You have CVEs for known vulnerabilities, and they end up in these databases, and they're there for years.
And if you're using old dependencies or maybe transitive dependencies or using old ones and you're stuck on it,
then you're going to be exposed to those vulnerabilities.
But what's different about that?
Sorry, examples of those include the WebP library not too long ago, right?
That was baked into Python and then also OpenSSL, right?
So people discovered issues in those.
Those are baked into different aspects of Python or some of the libraries.
And it's like, well, all of a sudden there's this fire drill, which is different than somebody going, I'm going to sneak a thing into the library.
Right.
And then it is a timing matter.
So malicious dependencies, that's a whole other story, because if a malicious package is discovered, there's not a CVE created for it.
The package is just taken off of the registry.
You know, you report it to the good people at PyPI and, you know, they'll review the submission and take it down.
I've done a few of those myself and they're really fast.
but there's still a window of time where that malicious package,
that malicious dependency is up and available.
And that's, you know, often all that's pitted.
Yeah, exactly.
I do think having a pinned dependency there is worthwhile
because if you make a commit, your CI runs, et cetera, et cetera, right?
Like the chances that you just bumped the version to this malicious thing is pretty low.
Yeah, exactly.
So yeah, having version ranges is not enough.
You need to have explicit versions.
All right, let's talk more about these lock files then.
Yes.
So there's actually a bunch of choices these days.
And Brett's PEP tried to make it less of a choice, say, well, it doesn't matter if you
hatch or pip or poetry or whatever, the outcome is the same.
and for reasons that I haven't learned enough about.
I don't know why that didn't work,
but let's talk about what's out there now
because there's a couple options at this point.
Sure.
I think the, yeah, so most Python developers
are going to be most familiar with pip, right?
That's the standard.
And pip has requirements files.
And they're unique in the lock file world
because they can be named anything, right?
Most other lock files have a defined name.
We were talking about Rust earlier.
They're the gold standard for a lot of this stuff.
And they're very clear.
They have cargo.lock.
That's their lock file.
You can't name it anything else.
Its contents are well-defined.
It is what it is.
But in Python with pip, I mean, you
could name it whatever you want.
Dev requirements.ext.
You could name it cargo.lock.
But it can contain Python dependencies in it.
Surprise.
I'm not rust.
Basically, you can just put more or less arbitrary commands
that are sent to pip into any text file, right?
Which is more or less what it is, yeah.
Yeah.
Yep.
Any command line option you can feed the pip,
you can put in a requirements file.
It's cool because you can import by saying -r some other file.
Yes.
But it's also not super structured.
That way?
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
So there are some tools available to turn those loose requirements
files, the pip requirements files, into strict lock files,
right, where every entry is pinned to a specific version.
And pip itself can do it with the pip freeze command.
So that's the one most people know about.
but that one's kind of not so great
because it only freezes the packages
for the environment that you ran pip freeze in.
You know, and maybe you're trying to publish
your lock file for users of a different platform or system.
The other thing that I don't like about it
is you want to put just the things you actually use
into your requirements file.
Like I'm using HTTPX and Pydantic, that's it.
But what it really installs when you run that is the transitive closure of all those things, which is fine.
But you're not necessarily expressing that with just your requirements.txt, right?
Right.
Yeah.
Your two packages could balloon to 100 dependencies.
And that's not uncommon.
It's not even that bad.
Like in the JavaScript ecosystem, you know, the same handful of top level dependencies could have two orders of magnitude explosion where you end up with.
There's a really, there's a, oh gosh, I can't find out.
You know what?
I think it's on, I think I put it on the Python device, but there's a really funny, I want to be able to pull this up for people so they can find it.
There's a funny, funny thing that somebody did.
Well, for some definition of funny.
they put um somebody created an uh npm package called everything and so there's an article called
everything becomes too much the npm package chaos of 2024 an npm user named patrick js launched a
troll campaign with a package called everything which depends on every package in npm yeah yeah
and that's i think i think it's the npm's are the largest package registry out there so it's
I mean, it's already massive.
I remember your early episodes,
you would recount how many packages were on PyPI.
And then we got to that.
I don't even know.
Are we past half a million?
Well, yeah, I remember it was a big deal.
We got up to 100,000.
And now it's, what, 400,000?
Look at that, 508,509 by rounding.
Yeah, half a million.
Congratulations, world.
Amazing.
I just added two new ones last week.
So I guess I've made a huge difference in that number.
Nice.
Yeah.
So basically the pip is awesome and it does a bunch of great stuff.
And one of the things I really like about working with pip is I don't need to teach people anything if they want to work with my project.
Right.
I don't need to teach them like, oh, I know you love poetry, but I'm using a combination of the hatch build back end with PDM.
You're like, what?
I don't even know what those are.
right? Like it's, there's a lot of like ways in which you work that are brought in with a lot of
these tools here. So pip is kind of like, you know, it just kind of works, right? Yes. But
having this transitive closure managed is not part of what it does, but it's super important.
Cause if I need to upgrade something, I can't just change my version number in my requirements
because that doesn't affect its dependency possibly, right? Like it depends on what it's,
It said, so I'm a huge fan of pip-tools.
This is actually what I do most of the time.
Yes.
Pip tools is another, another one.
You, you, you can it's, it's, it's great.
I think it has this pip compile commands that will take as an input.
I think just about any Python manifest type that's out there.
So you can do setup.py, requirements.txt.
I'm forgetting the other ones.
The pip env.lock, maybe.
Setup.cfg, pyproject.toml.
It just recognizes all the different ways people could express their loose requirements, the manifest files.
Yeah.
Yeah, I really like it.
And you can say pip compile upgrade
and it'll look at all the dependencies
and upgrade them all as high as they can go.
But what's nice about that is
you'll be working for a while,
then you choose like,
well, let me just do a refresh
on the dependencies right now
and repin them and see how that works.
And then just carry on with your business
for a while, right?
And it'll manage that transitive closure as well
with like actually a really nice lock file
where it described like,
These are all the things in the log file.
And the reason that, for example, in your blog post,
you say they're certified of this version
and it's there because you asked for it
and because request needs it.
If you're like, why is this in my virtual environment?
Why do I have this weird thing that I don't know?
Like, it'll tell you, here's why it's there.
Yeah.
Yeah, one of the downsides though,
I think pip-tools has this issue.
I know pip does,
is that in determining
that transitive dependency resolution,
it is very possible in fact usually happens that you have arbitrary code execution on your system
right like if you start with the two top level dependencies like you mentioned and it lists
dependencies well then it'll pull those in and it acquires the metadata from the wheel if that
exists but if it doesn't it'll build the package just to get the metadata file just to figure out
which dependencies that needs.
Are you saying I should set up a Docker container to execute this?
Yeah, that's kind of what's happening.
Maybe I should, yeah.
And, you know, yeah, running in a sandbox is another option, right?
Where that's what my company, Phylum, that's one of the solutions we offer.
we have extensions for our CLI where you can wrap pip
by just calling phylum pip,
and then everything runs in the sandbox.
So that's another solution.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So good, because I mean, pip is a funny one
because they even have a command line option
called dry run, tac-tac dry run,
which you would think,
oh, nothing's going to happen on my system.
It's just...
Except for running code from strangers on the internet.
But it does, yes.
Dry run, even using dry run,
for pip install and pip download commands will or has the possibility of of downloading and
running arbitrary code from strangers on the internet well you know if we had oh wheels came
along far after pip right and we've got the source distributions and setup.py and all that kind of
stuff and so if wheels existed from day one it very well may be the case that this is not a problem
But what is pip supposed to do?
It has to evaluate this dynamic thing to figure out what it was.
Yes.
Wheels are great because they have a metadata file in there that clearly lays out what the dependencies are.
And there's no arbitrary code running when you install a wheel.
It's just extracting and copying.
A wheel is just a zip file.
You extract that zip file and then copy the contents to various locations.
but yes as you said because we've had um source distributions tarballs and then even eggs before
that um and probably never going to fully get rid of those um it just takes one one one dependency
anywhere in your chain that is only distributed as a source distribution before now you're
downloading and building a package just to get metadata to, to continue.
Yeah. And maybe you didn't actually choose it, right? It's,
it's the dependency of a dependency of a dependency.
Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. That's yeah. Yeah. You know,
people often respond to some of the findings our company has where we'll,
you know,
we'll post these malicious packages with all sorts of crazy names and people
will respond to say like you know why why would i install that like why would i ever install this
this you know random package that no one's heard of it's like well you wouldn't it's it's it's it
could be but it could be included in you know the transit dependencies right if it gets if it gets
added to a slightly more legitimate package or you know worked up the chain that way then then uh
yes, eventually you'll be running it unknowingly.
Yeah.
I think there's two important things
we should talk about this before we move on
because there are some interesting ways
in which you might unknow it.
You might even try to do the right thing
and you might actually shoot yourself in the foot by doing so.
So number one,
these super strict lock files are awesome
when you're building an application.
I want to ship Talk Python training out.
It's got its strict APIs.
It runs on this version.
It uses that version of Pydantic, that version of Beanie and whatever.
Yeah.
I want that to be fixed, fixed, zero flexibility until I decide through maybe a pip compile
upgrade or whatever that I want a new one.
However, if I was building a library that someone else was using, I would do them many
headaches and a disservice to say, I depend on Pydantic 2.7.0.
you're like well my other library needs pydentic 8 2.8 right and i can't use it and your library
together right so you need the it's a different story when you're building a library that others
are going to consume than it is when you're building an application and there was some
some disagreement i guess about the recommendation of pip env for a while and it's because i believe
the pip env is really focused on the application side and it i don't think it was made super clear
that maybe it doesn't make as much sense for libraries, right?
So you want to speak to that a little?
Yeah, yeah.
I'm an advocate for lock files for everyone, right?
Applications for sure, but also libraries and their developers, right?
Because when you distribute a library, sure, loose dependencies is probably the way to go there.
But library developers, people who want to contribute to your projects, the developers themselves, maybe you work on a team, having a lock file alongside your library is still going to be useful, right?
Yeah, because that way you can say everyone, if somebody makes a change or they report a bug or whatever, they're not bringing in a change from a different version of a dependency or maybe something changed, right?
Yes, yes.
Yeah.
And then plus it still allows you to start from a known good spot.
And then maybe if you know you want to get the latest, then you can do it in a controlled environment, like a sandbox or maybe on CI in a throwaway runner that has no access to any secrets or sensitive.
That's interesting. I hadn't really thought about having a specific requirements lock file type of thing for the libraries that I've been working on.
For the developers, right? For people who want to contribute.
Because it's just been like a loose requirement so that people that build against it aren't pinned into some very specific thing.
But yeah, that makes a lot of sense, I think.
Yeah, there's a link in that blog post.
It's kind of dated now, but it's from the folks who built Yarn, you know, JavaScripting a system.
But they say it a lot more eloquently than I can.
Yeah, that's the one.
Lock files should be committed.
On all projects.
Yeah, it's a bit old now, but they go down the lists and spell it out a lot more clearly than me about why libraries even can benefit from publishing a lock file.
Yeah, people can check that out.
That's cool.
Yeah, that's the JavaScript package manager.
So in JavaScript years, like 100 years
or something, it's been a couple years.
That's right.
You got dog years, you got JavaScript years.
JavaScript years just take my second hand.
Yeah, yeah.
All right, cool.
So I see we're making great progress
through our list of things to talk about here.
I've gone through three, I've got like 15 left.
We'll have plenty of time.
So yeah, let's see.
So another one, another PEP I think we're talking about here is 517, a build system independent format for source trees.
I have no idea what this is.
What is this?
Yeah, PEP 517 and 518 kind of go together.
This was like the transition away from setup.py towards pyproject.toml.
518 is the one that specifies pyproject.toml, kind of things that go in it.
And then 5.17 is all about build systems and build backends.
So like in your pyproject.toml and your build system key,
you often see things like Poetry Core or Flit or Hatchling or these kinds of things.
And so 5.17 is specifying what it means to be one of those build backends.
It's really just defining two mandatory hooks.
What does it mean to build wheel and build SDist?
There's three optional hooks as well.
And I think there's even another PEP that followed on from this that talks about building editable packages.
Right, the dash E equivalence.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
But really, it just boils down to defining a way to build a wheel and build a source distribution.
Yeah.
And this is part of what opened up all the different choices we now have for package management and things like that, right?
Because now there's a common way they can all work together.
A little bit like WSGI.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah, I've been using Hatchling for my build back in recently, and it's been working real nicely.
OK.
Yeah, I was just looking at Hatchling the other day.
And they've got--
yeah, they're one of the build backends
that offers build hooks.
Which, you know, so prior to PyProject.toml
and wheels and you go back to the source distributions
and your setup.py files where it's just Python code.
You could be doing anything in your setup.py file, which
runs when you install the package.
Well, now we're starting to see methods
to do the same thing in these more modern packaging
or build backends.
So like Hatch has their build hooks, build system hooks,
where you can point it to, I think, yeah, just Python code
and have it run as part of the build.
Yeah, at least it only runs at build time, not install time.
Right?
I'm looking at the documentation now.
Yeah, this is still new to me,
but there might be hooks for install as well.
Okay.
While you're thinking about it,
one of the things,
I got a couple of questions
I want to highlight from the audience here,
but also one of the things
that I think maybe was considered,
I have no awareness of this,
but if it wasn't,
it would be excellent,
is what if the people at PIP
just pre-computed all that metadata from at least for the common platforms that you would get that
pip needs to download run setup pi and then throw it away just to get that data like for mac windows
and Linux you know if it would just go okay we're just gonna like as you upload it just kick off a
job that does that on those three platforms and put it in a json blob yeah it seems like that would
be worthwhile. I'm fairly certain there's discussions already around that type of a solution and maybe
even a PEP for a proposal for it. But yeah, getting away from having to build a package just to get
metadata. Yeah. You got packages that are downloaded billions of times with a B. It's insane. And if
somebody could do that three times instead of a billion times, it would make it work faster and it
would also make it safe, right?
I think it'd be great.
All right, a couple of questions here.
This one.
So Tony on the audience says,
"Pip Compile is great for finding
your transitive dependencies.
One interesting thing that they've done
is package up code with pants build,
which supports locks files,
just to look through what code gets packaged up.
Is this anything you've explored?"
- I've heard of pants.
I haven't looked into it myself yet.
Okay, yeah.
So just use it like, okay, you're going to have to build this thing
and give me a little manifest and whatnot,
and then we can just look at that.
That's cool.
And then Tamir says,
do you have a solution for taking already locked dependencies with you
when you start a new app?
I'm guessing maybe, yeah, I don't know.
I guess maybe you've already got a project you're working on.
You want to say like, I want this project to use that.
probably you could just copy the lock file, right?
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, if you start a new project or a new application,
you're going to have new manifest file.
PyProject.toml, maybe you have the same dependencies,
the top-level dependencies or not,
but the fully resolved set of dependencies
that makes up your lock file,
that can very easily be different.
So I'm not exactly sure how you just port over one to another.
One more bit from Tony.
This is something that I now remember from Pants.
It says, if it just looks through your code,
and if you use the import statement,
regardless of whether you put it in your requirements files,
it'll figure out what your requirements files should have been
if you were a bad developer, basically.
That's kind of cool, just to see what it uses.
Yeah.
Nice. All right.
On to the next thing.
Specifying PEP 518,
specifying minimum build system requirements
for Python projects.
Yeah, this is pyproject.toml.
This is the PEP for that.
Okay.
There's not much to it other than to say
that they've settled on that name,
rejecting a bunch of other possibilities,
and then they've got the few entries
that are required for your,
defining your build system.
Yeah, you don't have to have a pyproject.toml for Python,
but if you're building a Python library
and you don't want to use setup.py,
then you're much better off
having a pyproject.toml, right?
Yes.
Yeah, yeah.
It's more in the library side that it,
I mean, it's not that you can't use it on an application,
but it's more required on the library side.
Yeah.
That's the thing.
All right.
So let's talk about some of the ways in which your packages might go wrong.
We've already talked about typosquatting.
And we also talked about everything.
That's different.
Yeah.
But yeah, typosquatting is, it is tricky.
I think it's pretty well understood at this point.
But maybe just tell people real quick to cover that base, you know?
Sure.
Typosquatting is, you know, publishing a package with a name that's similar,
but not the same as an existing known good package.
Right.
So like instead of requests, maybe you get request without the S or, you know, one that
gets me because I make the typo all the time is the cryptography package.
Like if I put you on the spot, would you know how to spell cryptography?
You know, I always get the first couple of letters, you know, jumbled up a bit.
And there have been malicious packages published and then taken down with spelled C-R-P-Y instead of C-R-Y-P cryptography, right?
Yeah.
But the idea is that you can overlook a package because it looks like a good one.
It's not necessarily that you're going to install it because you type it wrong, although that is one technique, right?
The drive-by installs where someone just fat fingers the package name.
But really having a typo squatted package is going to allow these threat actors to be a little more stealthy in their inclusion of that package in legitimate code reviews and commits and dependencies of dependencies, right?
And so the other thing that goes with typo squatting, I don't know if I had a link for you there yet, is star jacking.
So a lot of times, if you're going to typo squat on a known good package, okay, there it is.
These threat actors, they just straight up copy the known good project, right?
Just clone the repository and then change the package name.
And then when they post the package to PyPI, for instance, the metadata that goes with the package still exists, right?
So on PyPI for a given package, you can see on the left-hand side, it shows like some statistics.
If the URL was given to like a GitHub hosted project, for instance, it'll go in there and tell you how many stars.
Right, right, right.
That's actually a signal that it seems like it should be good, right?
It'll have.
Yeah.
That's what star jacking is doing is just copying the metadata of a known good package so that on first look.
Yeah, there you go.
you can see like I did pull that pie test and it says statistics,
GitHub statistics, 11,000 stars, 2000 forks. Okay. This is legit.
Let's install it. Right.
So I could go clone pie test repository right now,
change the name to pie test spelled P I T E S T.
And then, and then the math version of testing. Yeah.
And you're going to get these same statistics and you're going to get the
same maintainers that you see if you scroll down a little bit in the,
the metadata. Yeah. So you get the maintainers list,
all of that metadata that you, you,
you enter in your pyproject.toml or set up that pie file gets read here on
PyPI and just, just publish. So you can, you can fake people out.
Yeah. That's actually really, okay. Well,
there's a new terrifying thing that I hadn't thought about.
Yeah. Yeah. So,
so star jacking and typosquatting where you just take a known good package,
clone it, and then maybe you make a change to existing function.
The function does what it's supposed to do,
but it also does some other stuff,
like ship off secrets from your CI server.
It could lay dormant and wait for some sort of production environment
and grab some SSHQs or something terrible.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That's the other thing.
Dependency confusion.
Okay, that's the next one you've got up.
Yeah, this is one we kind of talked,
it's similar to what we talked about before with,
I can't remember, but I said,
they're going to come back to this.
So here it is again.
This is a dependency confusion where
if you get the wrong version or the wrong name,
it could actually,
you try to be safe by having a whitelisted list.
Well, so this is one where it's the same package name,
different source of where you acquire that package.
Yes. So this is, you'll, these attacks are mostly like companies, enterprises.
This is the enterprise attack. Yeah. Yeah. So we use an artifactory and we, we only put our stuff there and we're, we're going to call it like, you know, international company underscore data access.
That's right. And it's tricky because if you don't know, like if you don't have your build system set up in a way and then your CI server set up in a way to install your dependencies in the proper order, like excluding public registries first and only looking for packages in your private registry, then it's very easy, especially with pip, which defaults to looking on PyPI, the public registry first, and then only falling back to your
your extra index URL specifications.
Secondly, that if someone had the knowledge or just guessed
at the package name that you had published
on your internal registry, and then they
made their own package with the same name but put it on PyPI,
that's the one that's going to get installed.
And there was a whole series of bug bounties
that were claimed over this back a few years ago
because people just went around guessing at internal package names,
or maybe they used to work there or knew people.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I'll pay you a hundred bucks just to share your quorum at SatiXT with me.
Right, right, right, right.
It's kind of, it's extra sneaky because it only affects people.
It only affects people who are going out of their way to be more secure, right?
They're going out of their way to say,
we're going to actually set up a whole server
and we're going to whitelist a bunch of stuff.
You can only ask for the names of the things on this server.
Yes, yes.
And that might still work
if you limit it to your internal registry only
or a mirror, perhaps, of the public registries.
What do you think about that?
It's pretty easy to create your own internal copy,
download a bunch of...
external ones and mirror them locally and say like these are the ones that are pre-approved
at our company nothing else yeah yeah i i've worked in a environment where that's exactly what we did
and yeah i think there is merit to that you just have to know that anything you're mirroring to
the trusted internal network is in fact secure you know yeah yeah for sure i think you know it doesn't
really make sense except for a few very rare cases to say you cannot use external dependencies
right you're just saying what we want is to not build software but while the rest of the world
does you know because that's part of the magic we just saw there's over half a million libraries
you can choose from when you say we have zero of those you're really really constraining the
type of software and the velocity at which you can build.
Yeah.
It reminds me of that line, you know, like, why do you rob banks?
Because they have the money.
Because that's where the money is, right?
It's like, well, why do attackers, why are attackers going after open source software
now?
It's like, well, that's where it's easiest to get arbitrary code to run.
That's where developers are.
that's what to be fair though it's not only it's not only right there's solar winds which really
had almost nothing to do with open source but it had to do with ci cd systems and other sneakiness
right yeah yeah yeah and got into places that you know instead of getting into libraries you get into
the build system and you just give it a little extra a little extra include tag there in your code
bringing that deal out like you said right so dependency and confusion is sneaky because
you're asking for a local version off a local server it doesn't exist on pypi but if it could
be made to exist on pypi all of a sudden that gets installed that potentially that's not good
potentially yeah yeah it's it's that's how it works in all the default cases and it's it's
pretty tricky actually to to exclude to do it in the correct order and exclude those public
registries yeah what's um what i do to help this is i just i just run the uuid command to get one
of those 16 digit arbitrary hex things and i just name all my libraries that and so it's like oh do
you have the f3 dc yeah that's the api one that's right that's import that right no one is
going to do this it's such a safe space i tell you all right on to the next one that that would work
expired author domains.
This is super sneaky.
Yeah.
So this is one, you know, it might be less of a factor now.
I think it was just earlier this month that PyPI enforced two-factor authentication for
all their users.
But a lot of sites and, you know, even PyPI, I think before this month, have, you know, password reset features where if you lose access to your account or you forget your password, just, you know, send me an email and reset your password.
But it's very possible that people years ago submitted a package.
They don't maintain it anymore.
They submitted it under an old email account that has expired.
They had some domain.
It doesn't work that well for Gmail or Outlook.
But if you had a custom domain and as would be awesome,
have your own, you know, Michael at talkpython.fm,
that kind of thing.
Yeah.
Say you, you win the lottery and, and I'm out.
And then you let your domain expire and well,
maybe there's still a linkage for the talk Python domain to PyPI.
And then I go and buy that domain and, you know,
request a password.
server yeah account reset yeah and then now i now i can uh publish new versions of the packages
there yeah yeah it's not good yeah yeah so i don't really know what to do about that one but there's
an amazing there's an amazing joke that i found on mastodon um somebody posted sit here and it's uh
two big red buttons think ren and stimpy or whatever and one of the red buttons says admit
that your dream is dead.
The other one says pay $12 for domain renewal, right?
I mean, it's funny,
but there's plenty of people who will get a domain.
I'm going to totally go in.
And then it's like, you know what?
I haven't done anything without five years.
I'm not paying another 12 bucks.
But if they had set up an account under that, right?
This is what you're talking about.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
That's why you got to buy your domains
for that hundred year renewal period.
Exactly.
You take out that loan, you get the domain.
All right.
We're getting short on time here.
I want to, let me, let's just go through.
I'll just list off a few real quick.
Maybe we do lightning round.
Okay.
Unverifiable dependency.
These are for specifying dependencies that are not necessarily published to PyPI.
Right.
So that maybe you're pointing to a GitHub repository.
You know, pip calls these VCS project URLs, you know, if you look in their help output.
Yeah, it's like pip install git plus HTTP to a thing that has a pipe project at Tom or something.
And that thing, it can point to a repository.
Maybe it points to a tag.
Maybe it points to a branch.
None of that is stable, right?
Like the tag could change out from under you.
The code that's related to that tag could change that from when you use the code at the branch you're pointing to could change, while the name remains the same.
So, you know, those are risky for that reason, right?
If you're not pinning to a very specific version or a very specific hash, right, if you're going to point to a repository or a git URL.
Interesting.
Yeah.
I've gotten to feel a lot of times like the hash is maybe a little bit redundant, given the immutability of PyPI.
But if you're pointing at something like this, then maybe all of a sudden you really do want that for sure.
Yeah, okay.
Repo jacking?
Yeah, this is similar to the expired author domain, right?
So if someone was pointing to one of those git dependencies, a VCS project URL, as pip calls it,
and, you know, that account went dormant or expired, relinquished, whatever, and someone else took it over, then, yeah, they can now dictate.
Change what's there, yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
A lot of people are requiring.
All right.
And then maybe last bit, get a chance to talk a bit about your Phylum CI project.
I do want to point out really quick, though, that Phylum was a sponsor of the show a while ago, but this is not a sponsored episode.
This is just you and I have been talking prior to that, actually, and decided to put this show together.
So just to be clear, but let's talk about this project you guys got anyway.
Yeah, yeah.
So you can pip install Phylum right now or like I prefer, PipX, PipX install Phylum.
Yeah, I love PipX.
It's awesome.
Oh, me too.
I think I heard about it from you, actually.
So the circle goes.
Yes.
So this package, it does two main things.
One is it exposes two entry points.
One of them is called phylum init, and that'll get you the phylum command line interface written in Rust, but installed with Python.
It'll get you the Phylum CLI locally.
And then the other one is called Phylum CI.
That's just a catch-all entry point,
the thing that gets exposed through our Docker container
to handle almost all of our integrations.
So if you want to monitor your PRs on GitHub, for instance,
we've got an integration for that.
So the idea is basically that I could set this up in GitHub.
A PR comes in, I could set up an action.
Wylem will scan it for known mischievousness.
That's right.
And make that part of the PR, maybe even block it out, right?
Yeah, exactly.
It'll fail your build if you don't pass your default policy or established policy on any of your given lock files or manifests.
We deal with manifests as well.
And you mentioned GitHub.
So even with GitHub, we went a step further.
We have an app as well.
So you don't even have to modify a workflow.
you could just install a GitHub app and automatically monitor your repositories.
But a lot of the other ecosystems don't have that.
So we just provide Docker containers.
I love the Docker container.
So you just Docker run against your code or whatever.
Yeah.
And then there's even a pre-commit hook we exposed as well.
Nice.
I genuinely don't know the answer to this question.
Does this cost money?
No.
We have, you can sign, anyone.
Anyone can sign up for free.
There's a community edition
where you can have up to five projects.
Okay, cool.
You guys have to eat.
There must be some way you charge for something.
Oh, exactly.
Yeah, yeah.
So there's the paid version, right?
Which, you know, unlimited projects.
You get access to group-based management.
You know, there's a few extra features.
It's a freemium model.
More of a Teams enterprise-y angle.
Yeah, yeah.
But for this audience, I mean, I would love if everyone just went that little extra step
of securing their open source software and go with the free option.
I'm not trying to sell you anything here.
Just, you know, monitor your manifest, your lock files.
Make sure that you remain secure and not exposing your secrets.
Because that's what we're finding now is that developers are the new high-value targets.
That's what attackers want to go after because we know that developers, they have the secrets.
They've got the keys.
We write the code that then gets run on the production server inside the firewalls.
Yeah.
We have all the access, all the secrets, all the keys.
So, you know, if you can find a way to get arbitrary code from strangers to run on developer systems, you're going to have a much better chance.
We're having a good time.
Yeah.
We're going to have a good time.
By that, I mean having a bad time.
Right.
Yeah.
Doing bad things.
Okay.
Let's not do that.
Awesome.
Well, excellent work.
I think probably we'll kind of just leave it there.
We're pretty much out of time for the rest of the stuff.
But close it out for us, Charlie.
people are maybe both have a few new tools to work with,
but also techniques, but maybe also a little freaked out.
What do you tell them?
I recommend everyone to restrict their use of dependencies to lock files.
And then carefully gate or guard the inclusion of new lock files
or updates of existing ones, or sorry,
dependencies in those lock files with careful analysis.
Don't allow arbitrary code to run anywhere in your development process and give FileM a try.
We've got the free community edition.
We will provide that analysis and ensure that you don't have malware running on your system through bad dependencies.
Awesome.
All right.
Well, it's been very interesting and a lot of new things to think about.
So thanks for being here.
Thank you, Michael.
Yeah.
See you later.
Bye.
Yeah.